Fixed #35859 -- Implement Tasks interface as per DEP 14 (#18627)
django/django: docs/topics/tasks.txt

convenience that can be used during development and testing.

To use it, set :setting:`BACKEND <TASKS-BACKEND>` to
``"django.tasks.backends.dummy.DummyBackend"``::

    TASKS = {"default": {"BACKEND": "django.tasks.backends.dummy.DummyBackend"}}

The results for enqueued tasks can be retrieved from the backend's
:attr:`results <django.tasks.backends.dummy.DummyBackend.results>` attribute::

    from django.tasks import default_task_backend

    my_task.enqueue()

    assert len(default_task_backend.results) == 1

Stored results can be cleared using the
:meth:`clear <django.tasks.backends.dummy.DummyBackend.clear>` method::

    default_task_backend.clear()

    assert len(default_task_backend.results) == 0

Using a custom backend
----------------------

While Django includes support for a number of task backends out-of-the-box,
sometimes you might want to customize the the task backend. To use an external
task backend with Django, use the Python import path as the
:setting:`BACKEND <TASKS-BACKEND>` of the :setting:`TASKS` setting, like so::

    TASKS = {
        "default": {
            "BACKEND": "path.to.backend",
        }
    }

> If you're building your own backend, you can use the standard task backends

Reviewer: Is `standard` a defined term here? Should it be something like:

```suggestion
If you're building your own backend, you can refer to existing task backends
```

Backend features
----------------

Django's tasks framework is designed to be backend-agnostic. This means some
backends may not implement the same features as others, such as executing ``async``
functions.

Depending on the backend configured, it may be necessary to gracefully degrade
functionality, or use a system check to prevent the application from starting at all.

To facilitate this, certain features can be checked on a backend:

* :attr:`supports_defer <django.tasks.backends.base.BaseTaskBackend.supports_defer>`:
  Can tasks be executed after a specific time using ``run_after``?

* :attr:`supports_async_task <django.tasks.backends.base.BaseTaskBackend.supports_async_task>`:
  Can ``async`` functions (coroutines) be used as task functions?

* :attr:`supports_get_result <django.tasks.backends.base.BaseTaskBackend.supports_get_result>`:
  Can a task's results be retrieved from another thread or process?

Defining tasks
==============

Tasks are defined using the :meth:`django.tasks.task` decorator on a
module-level function::

    from django.tasks import task

    @task()
    def calculate_meaning_of_life(answer=42):
        return answer

> Returned in a :class:`django.tasks.Task` instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The return value is a :class:`django.tasks.Task` instance.
```

I think this is what it's saying?

* :attr:`priority <django.tasks.Task.priority>`
* :attr:`backend <django.tasks.Task.backend>`
* :attr:`queue_name <django.tasks.Task.queue_name>`
* :attr:`run_after <django.tasks.Task.run_after>`

``run_after`` may also be provided as a :class:`timedelta <datetime.timedelta>`,
which is used relative to the current time (when ``using`` is called), or a
timezone-aware :class:`datetime <datetime.datetime>`.

Enqueueing tasks
================

To add the task to the queue store, so it will be executed, call the ``enqueue``
method on it::

    result = calculate_meaning_of_life.enqueue()

Returned is a :class:`django.tasks.TaskResult`, which can be used to retrieve
the result of the task once it has finished executing.

If the task takes arguments, these can be passed as-is to ``enqueue``::

    result = calculate_meaning_of_life.enqueue(answer=42)

To enqueue tasks in an ``async`` context, :meth:`aenqueue <django.tasks.Task.aenqueue>`
is available as an ``async`` variant of ``enqueue``.

Transactions
------------

By default, tasks are enqueued after the current transaction (if there is one)
commits successfully (using :meth:`transaction.on_commit <django.db.transaction.on_commit>`),

> rather than enqueueing immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rather than enqueueing immediately.
This is the default because often a task depends on an object that is being stored in the database,
and you want to ensure the object is present before the task runs. 
```

I think this explains why this is the default?

This behavior can be changed by changing the :setting:`TASKS-ENQUEUE_ON_COMMIT`
setting for the backend, or for a specific task using the ``enqueue_on_commit``
parameter.

Task results
============

When enqueueing a ``Task``, you receive a :class:`django.tasks.TaskResult`,
however it's likely useful to retrieve the result from somewhere else (for example
another request or another task).

Each ``TaskResult`` has a unique :attr:`id <django.tasks.TaskResult.id>`, which
can be used to identify and retrieve the result once the code which enqueued the
task has finished.

The :meth:`django.tasks.Task.get_result` method can retrieve a result based on
its ``id``::

    # Later, somewhere else...
    result = calculate_meaning_of_life.get_result(result_id)

If the ``TaskResult`` exists, it is returned. If it doesn't exist, or isn't a
result for ``calculate_meaning_of_life``, :exc:`django.tasks.exceptions.ResultDoesNotExist`
is raised.

> To retrieve a ``TaskResult``, regardless of which kind of ``Task`` it was from,
> use the ``get_result`` method on the API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To retrieve a ``TaskResult``, regardless of which kind of ``Task`` it was from,
use the ``get_result`` method on the API.
```

Which API? An example here, or link to the method would resolve confusion.

To retrieve results in an ``async`` context, :meth:`aget_result <django.tasks.Task.aget_result>`
is available as an ``async`` variant of ``get_result`` on both the backend and ``Task``.

Some backends, such as the built in ``ImmediateBackend`` do not support ``get_result``.
Calling ``get_result`` on these backends will raise :exc:`NotImplementedError`.

Updating results
----------------

A ``TaskResult`` contains the status of a task's execution at the point it was
retrieved. If the task finishes after ``get_result`` is called, it will not update.

To refresh the values, call the :meth:`django.tasks.TaskResult.refresh` method::

    result.status  # RUNNING

    result.refresh()  # or await result.arefresh()

    result.status  # SUCCEEDED

Return values
-------------

If your task function returns something, it can be retrieved from the
:attr:`django.tasks.TaskResult.return_value` attribute::

    result.return_value  # 42

> If the task has not finished executing, or has failed, :exc:`ValueError` is raised.

Reviewer: Should the code example above perhaps check for `ResultStatus.SUCCEEDED` before accessing the value, to make it clear the semantics?

========================
Django's tasks framework
========================

For a web application, there's often more than just turning HTTP requests into
HTTP responses. For some functionality, it may be beneficial to run code outside
of the request-response cycle.

That's where background tasks come in.

Background tasks can offload complexity outside of the request-response cycle,
to be run somewhere else, potentially at a later date. This keeps requests fast,
latency down, and improves the user's experience.

Background task fundamentals
============================

When work needs to be done in the background, Django creates a Task, which is
stored in the Queue Store. This task contains all of the metadata needed to
execute the task, as well as a unique identifier for Django to retrieve the
result later.

Outside of Django, a Worker looks at the Queue Store for new Tasks to run. When
a new Task is added, the Worker claims the task, executes it, and saves the

> status and result back to the Queue Store.

Reviewer: > consistent capitalization of Task feels important (given there are `Task` objects here), so we're not confusing Task objects with conceptual tasks.

You can also use ``Task`` to note the code object more explicitly.

.. _configuring-a-task-backend:

Configuring a Task backend
==========================

Background tasks require some work to set up.

Different task backends have different characteristics and configuration options,
which may impact the performance and reliability of your application.

Task backends are configured using the :setting:`TASKS` setting in your settings
file.

.. _immediate-task-backend:

Immediate execution
-------------------

This is the default backend if another is not specified in your settings file.
The immediate backend runs enqueued tasks immediately, rather than in the
background. This allows background task functionality to be slowly added
to an application, before the required infrastructure is available.

.. warning::

    When :setting:`ENQUEUE_ON_COMMIT <TASKS-ENQUEUE_ON_COMMIT>` is ``False``,
    the task will be executed within the same transaction it was enqueued in.

>     This may lead to unexpected behavior changes when changing backend in future.

Reviewer 2: ```
@task
def my_task():
    Thing.objects.get()

with transaction.atomic():
    Thing.objects.create()
    my_task.enqueue()
```

The counter-example here is that with the above code and `ENQUEUE_ON_COMMIT = True`, _every backend works_, including `ImmediateBackend`. `ENQUEUE_ON_COMMIT = False` is, by default, a mistake. You have to have a pretty good reason for setting that, and it's very unlikely that task code that is in any shared code would work correctly in that environment.

I would put a warning box next to the general `ENQUEUE_ON_COMMIT` documentation saying something like the following (with the code example):

```
by default, task enqueues happen when any existing database transaction is committed. On most backend, tasks will be run in an entirely separate process, using a different database connection. Without waiting for a commit, task workers could try to start processing before the triggering transaction is committed (or rolled back!)

Imagine the following code example:
<code example>

If `ENQUEUE_ON_COMMIT` is set to `False`, then it is possible for `my_task` to run before the object is committed to the database, and the task won't be able to see the created object within your transaction. In simpler cases the latency is often enough that you do not see this problem, but background tasks running before a transaction is committed (or queueing tasks despite a transaction being rolled back!) is a common bug in systems that don't code defensively around this problem. But `ENQUEUE_ON_COMMIT` being set to `True` avoids this problem.
```

"`ImmediateBackend` works when it shouldn't in this case" feels less important to me than "basically every backend won't work if this setting is set wrong".

To use it, set :setting:`BACKEND <TASKS-BACKEND>` to
``"django.tasks.backends.immediate.ImmediateBackend"``::

    TASKS = {"default": {"BACKEND": "django.tasks.backends.immediate.ImmediateBackend"}}

.. _dummy-task-backend:

Dummy backend
-------------

The dummy backend doesn't execute enqueued tasks at all, instead storing results

> for later use.

Reviewer 2: I think if the tasks don't run the enqueued tasks, then the result should show a failure. If not you get into weird territory of code thinking something is complete

> for later use.

Author: They're in the `NEW` state (eg this task hasn't been run yet), which is semantically correct.

> for later use.

Reviewer 2: I think that's worth a line in the docs somewhere, and sounds like the right decision!

    default_task_backend.clear()

    assert len(default_task_backend.results) == 0

Using a custom backend
----------------------

While Django includes support for a number of task backends out-of-the-box,
sometimes you might want to customize the the task backend. To use an external
task backend with Django, use the Python import path as the
:setting:`BACKEND <TASKS-BACKEND>` of the :setting:`TASKS` setting, like so::

    TASKS = {
        "default": {
            "BACKEND": "path.to.backend",
        }
    }

If you're building your own backend, you can use the standard task backends
as reference implementations. You'll find the code in the
:source:`django/tasks/backends/` directory of the Django source.

Backend arguments
-----------------

Each backend can be given additional arguments to control its behavior.
These arguments are provided as additional keys in the :setting:`TASKS` setting.
Valid arguments are as follows:

* :setting:`ENQUEUE_ON_COMMIT <TASKS-ENQUEUE_ON_COMMIT>`: Whether a task should
  be enqueued at the end of the current transaction (if there
  is one) commits successfully, rather than enqueueing immediately. This argument

>   defaults to ``True``.

Reviewer: Yea, it's not obvious to me on reading this and having a general understanding of the problem why this is even a setting, and why I might want to unset it.

>   defaults to ``True``.

Reviewer 3: I guess this is best explain [here](https://github.com/LaunchPlatform/bq?tab=readme-ov-file#why) by bq (another postgresql task queue) project. Big advantage of using database as task queue is the possibility to insert the task within the same transaction as the main process.

But then I think this only apply when using external broker, either non-database such as redis, rabbitmq or separate database for the queue so we can't insert stuff todo and it's task within a same transaction. If using the same database we don't really need this settings as we can always insert stuff todo, insert task, commit and then the worker will see the task and work on it.

* :setting:`QUEUES <TASKS-QUEUES>`: Restrict the queue names a task may be
  enqueued to. By default, only the ``"default"`` queue is allowed. Queue name

>   validation can be disabled by setting this to an empty list.

Reviewer 2: I am referring to the setting in general. Personally, I would not use this restriction. Not because I am expecting to dynamically create queues, but just that it feels like it would be Yet Another Thing To Remember To Do when adding tasks.

I don't feel strongly about this, though. If this feels like a useful safeguard to people, then it's a useful safeguard.

>   validation can be disabled by setting this to an empty list.

Reviewer 4: The use case that I’ve encountered is when there are specific workers that must handle a particular task.

A real world example is pulling data from branch office databases. Suppose an instance of Postgres is running inside a corporate network in New York, and another instance of Postgres is running in London. Both of those sit inside private corporate networks, not publicly accessible.

To make these ETL pipelines work, we need a worker running in New York and one in London. The `refresh_newyork_data()` task must run on the New York worker, and the `refresh_london_data()` must run on the London worker.

>   validation can be disabled by setting this to an empty list.

Reviewer 2: That's a convincing reason! Sounds good

>   validation can be disabled by setting this to an empty list.

Reviewer: It would be useful to include this example in the docs, so people better understand why this is useful.

Asynchronous support
--------------------

Django has developing support for asynchronous task backends.

``django.tasks.backends.base.BaseTaskBackend`` has async variants of all base
methods. By convention, the asynchronous versions of all methods are prefixed
with ``a``. The arguments for both variants are the same.

Retrieving backends
-------------------

Backends can be retrieved using the ``tasks`` connection handler::

    from django.tasks import tasks

    tasks["default"]  # The default backend
    tasks["reserve"]  # Another backend

The "default" backend is available as ``default_task_backend``::

    from django.tasks import default_task_backend

Backend features
----------------

Django's tasks framework is designed to be backend-agnostic. This means some
backends may not implement the same features as others, such as executing ``async``

> functions.

Author: This is just a light example. This case itself is explained in more accurate words below for `supports_async_task`

Depending on the backend configured, it may be necessary to gracefully degrade
functionality, or use a system check to prevent the application from starting at all.

To facilitate this, certain features can be checked on a backend:

* :attr:`supports_defer <django.tasks.backends.base.BaseTaskBackend.supports_defer>`:
  Can tasks be executed after a specific time using ``run_after``?

* :attr:`supports_async_task <django.tasks.backends.base.BaseTaskBackend.supports_async_task>`:
  Can ``async`` functions (coroutines) be used as task functions?

* :attr:`supports_get_result <django.tasks.backends.base.BaseTaskBackend.supports_get_result>`:

>   Can a task's results be retrieved from another thread or process?

Author: Because of `ImmediateBackend`. `ImmediateBackend` does support `get_result`, but the store is tied to the thread, so other requests can't fetch the results.

Defining tasks
==============

Tasks are defined using the :meth:`django.tasks.task` decorator on a
module-level function::

    from django.tasks import task

    @task()
    def calculate_meaning_of_life(answer=42):
        return answer

Returned in a :class:`django.tasks.Task` instance.

.. note::

    All arguments and return values must be JSON serializable, and round-trip
    as the same types.

    This means complex types like model instances, as well as many built-in types
    like ``datetime`` and ``tuple`` cannot be used in tasks without additional

>     conversion.

Reviewer 2: Oh you're totally right.

So a bit of a variant on this idea: right now the task backend handles the call to `json_normalize`. What about changing this so that the backends expect already serialized args/kwargs? And `Task` has a method like `serialize_arguments` which returns a bundle meant to be provided to the backend?

That way the backends are not in charge of the normalization step, and a project could easily subclass `Task` to add things that they care about and do their own serialization/deserialization strategy if they care.

That way we enforce the JSON-ness of the task-provided arguments at the backend API level, whereas in the existing design I would be tempted to subclass a backend to provide different serialization code. Tasks could remain backend-agnostic.

Not a blocker, but I do think if we're worried about backend-specific behavior then having the backend class _not_ be in charge of JSON normalization would help avoid that kind of issue.

The ``task`` decorator accepts a few keyword arguments to customize the task:

> * ``priority``: The priority of the task. Higher numbers will be executed sooner.

Reviewer 4: I see a couple of options:

1. **Punt this to external tooling**: Use a management command that runs a scheduler. This is similar to how we would run Celery Beat in addition to a Celery worker, where the scheduler management command would, in addition to scheduling tasks, have the ability to reorder tasks in the queue. For instance, it would be fairly straightforward to use the [schedule](https://github.com/dbader/schedule) library with registered tasks and a management command that runs `schedule.run_pending()` in a loop (as an example to illustrate how it might work).

2. **Middleware pattern**: Implement something that would be similar in pattern to a "middleware for task requests" to allow for pluggable guard rails or other functionality. This would be more of a supplement to allow external tooling to handle more complex needs. For example, a common issue with schedulers is if the worker is offline but the scheduler keeps adding tasks to the queue indefinitely. There could be middleware-like functions that help act as circuit breakers, or often in simple projects we just want to ensure only one instance of each task is running at any time.

Scheduling does seem like an area that will quickly grow beyond the scope of what `django.tasks` should provide out of the box (though we can provide a reference implementation).

There is a lot of potential here if a small team can build out a set of background tasks in Django, and then plug an external scheduler or orchestrator into that. Imagine gaining the benefit of having your Django tasks orchestrated by Airflow, or similarly mature tooling that has already solved many challenges around scheduling and task orchestration involving complex task dependencies.

> * ``priority``: The priority of the task. Higher numbers will be executed sooner.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I am failing to see the link between your reply and my original message here. 

I believe here `priority` refers to a way that you can queue up messages into a same queue with different priorities, and that ends up with queues reordering messages to take the important ones "first".

Regarding scheduled tasks, I think there's a very large universe of possibilities like what you're mentioning. A problem where it's possible to have opinions, but definitely not a problem where there are no good solutions!

> * ``priority``: The priority of the task. Higher numbers will be executed sooner.

Reviewer 4: You mentioned not including the priority feature if it were not already included, and the range of priorities possible, which suggests to me each project may have different ways of implementing the concept of prioritization.

Which raises the question, should this be something that’s natively a property of the task, versus something that is pluggable, i.e. handled by an external scheduled/orchestrator or implemented as a kind of middleware (not a Django middleware, but the same idea, specific to the task request/response cycle).

It doesn’t bother me personally if `priority` is directly on the task, but I foresee a need for many other customization needs (of which priority is one example), and middleware seems like a pattern that’s proven effective at customizing a request/response cycle, and well understood in the Django ecosystem.

> * ``priority``: The priority of the task. Higher numbers will be executed sooner.

Author: Have you seen any queues which don't have a concept of task priority? Sure, it might not be numeric, but casting them to smaller ranges should work.

> * ``priority``: The priority of the task. Higher numbers will be executed sooner.

Reviewer 2: A simple database backend without a priority is straightforward. One with a priority number associated to tasks must now answer operational questions about how the priority is handled, especially if a single worker is listening to multiple queues and where the queue hygiene is not great (like some tasks take much longer than others).

I understand having the priority number be available because if you're using something like rabbit it's just there. I just think that a `DatabaseBackend` that ships with Django should be very simple if possible, and priorities feels like something that would require more finessing.

Overall thing here though: if we can have the `DatabaseBackend` in this PR then it would be easier to confirm/deny my suspicion on that point. If the code is already present then that's a fair argument against my critique!

> * ``priority``: The priority of the task. Higher numbers will be executed sooner.

Reviewer 2: I will restate that I think including the DatabaseBackend in the first iteration is worth it, because currently this PR doesn't include any backends that run things in other processes. There are several things where discussions are happening abstractly but if we have the backend included they can be concrete.

An alternative idea would be to at least put up a WIP branch with the DB backend somewhere, to show how things will work in practice. I think it's important to show a successful implementation.

Or should I just be looking at django-tasks for the implementation there?

> * ``priority``: The priority of the task. Higher numbers will be executed sooner.

Author: Just look at `django-tasks`. Even then, it's _an_ implementation. 3rd-party implementations are still a requirement, so this common API needs to be generally useful. A single additional implementation doesn't necessarily validate or invalidate an assumption here.

* ``queue_name``: The name of the queue the task will be executed on

* ``backend``: The name of the backend this task must use (as defined in
  :setting:`TASKS`).

* ``enqueue_on_commit``: Whether the task is enqueued when the current transaction
  commits successfully, or enqueued immediately.

These arguments correspond to attributes on the created
:class:`Task <django.tasks.Task>`.

By convention, tasks should be defined in a ``tasks.py`` file, however this is

> not enforced.

Reviewer 2: (I think it _should_ be auto-imported, I think that's just a question of modifying `AppConfig`)

> not enforced.

Reviewer 4: Celery already uses the `tasks.py` convention, so there are going to be many projects that already have this file present that are unrelated to `django.tasks`.

I do foresee a need to get a list of all registered tasks, whether that happens by checking each installed app's `tasks.py` module for instances of `backend.task_class`, or adding a registration dictionary to the `@task` decorator. The use case would be something like scheduling a task from the admin portal, similar to how Celery Beat allows this by picking a registered task from a dropdown list.

> not enforced.

Reviewer 2: This is why I think it's valuable to have the Database backend here. If we don't auto-import `tasks.py`, but are recommending that we define tasks in `tasks.py`, and someone creates a task in `tasks.py` that gets queued in a view, but would be out of the import tree for a task worker, then the background worker won't know about the task to execute it! 

(That is to say, unless the database worker is in fact doing something like `import_string` on a task name... which I would find to be not ideal)

Anyways, big tent version of this:
- How does a background worker know about a task in `tasks.py`? Do we rely on the import tree hitting all tasks?
- Is the backend responsible for trawling import trees, rather than the `AppConfig`?

I am OK with any result now, but I think DX-wise the long term should have some form of auto-importing if we're recommending that tasks be defined there.

> not enforced.

Reviewer 4: I like the DX of auto-importing and it should be fine if we provide an escape hatch, should this behavior conflict with existing Celery code for some reason.

Celery provides `autodiscover_tasks()` where we can do something like `autodiscover_tasks(related_name='tasks2')` to have it auto-import the `tasks2.py` module or `tasks2` package of each Django app. We can provide something similar, or a `TASKS_` setting in `settings.py` to define the module/package path to use (which defaults to `tasks`).

> not enforced.

Reviewer 2: This can maybe be a feature for later down the road then. Don't want to increase the number of question marks if we can avoid it.

> not enforced.

Author: When a task is saved to the store, its module path is saved with it, so `import_string` is used to find it. There's no need to know about all tasks in memory.

Modifying tasks
---------------

Before enqueueing tasks, it may be necessary to modify certain parameters of the task.
For example, to give it a higher priority than it would normally.

A ``Task`` instance cannot be modified directly. Instead, a modified instance
can be created with the :meth:`using <django.tasks.Task.using>` method, leaving
the original as-is::

    calculate_meaning_of_life.priority  # 0

    calculate_meaning_of_life.using(priority=10).priority  # 10

``using`` allows modifying the following attributes:

* :attr:`priority <django.tasks.Task.priority>`
* :attr:`backend <django.tasks.Task.backend>`
* :attr:`queue_name <django.tasks.Task.queue_name>`
* :attr:`run_after <django.tasks.Task.run_after>`

``run_after`` may also be provided as a :class:`timedelta <datetime.timedelta>`,

> which is used relative to the current time (when ``using`` is called), or a

Author: Using `timedelta` was a convenience. I agree it could be surprising, and probably wants documenting.

I'll leave this comment here as to whether others think it's a useful API to have, or not worth the footgun.

Returned is a :class:`django.tasks.TaskResult`, which can be used to retrieve
the result of the task once it has finished executing.

If the task takes arguments, these can be passed as-is to ``enqueue``::

    result = calculate_meaning_of_life.enqueue(answer=42)

To enqueue tasks in an ``async`` context, :meth:`aenqueue <django.tasks.Task.aenqueue>`
is available as an ``async`` variant of ``enqueue``.

Transactions
------------

By default, tasks are enqueued after the current transaction (if there is one)
commits successfully (using :meth:`transaction.on_commit <django.db.transaction.on_commit>`),
rather than enqueueing immediately.

This behavior can be changed by changing the :setting:`TASKS-ENQUEUE_ON_COMMIT`
setting for the backend, or for a specific task using the ``enqueue_on_commit``
parameter.

Task results
============

When enqueueing a ``Task``, you receive a :class:`django.tasks.TaskResult`,
however it's likely useful to retrieve the result from somewhere else (for example
another request or another task).

Each ``TaskResult`` has a unique :attr:`id <django.tasks.TaskResult.id>`, which
can be used to identify and retrieve the result once the code which enqueued the

> task has finished.

Author: The fact they're UUIDs is sort of an implementation detail - I don't think it needs to be mentioned over and over again. They're only guaranteed to be unique to the backend itself (even if it's highly unlikely UUIDs will conflict).

The :meth:`django.tasks.Task.get_result` method can retrieve a result based on
its ``id``::

    # Later, somewhere else...
    result = calculate_meaning_of_life.get_result(result_id)

If the ``TaskResult`` exists, it is returned. If it doesn't exist, or isn't a

> result for ``calculate_meaning_of_life``, :exc:`django.tasks.exceptions.ResultDoesNotExist`

Author: That could work, however I intentionally left it out in case of future optimisation. I think of it like using the same integer id for two different DB tables.

> result for ``calculate_meaning_of_life``, :exc:`django.tasks.exceptions.ResultDoesNotExist`

Reviewer 2: I think if you want to have a version without future optimizations, then you should say "a ``TaskResult`` with the matching ID is returned if it exists.". That phrasing removes any questions of tasks from different results.

I think we shouldn't mention the case of looking up a result from a different task, because no matter what `get_result` _should never return a result from a different task_. It can look up a result for the task it is a method of. 

Of course backends will need to check that the result is for the right task when we just have an ID and are sharing result storage across tasks, but it's an implementation detail of the backend. I would prefer having a stricter error if globally unique IDs are being used for a backend, but that's just because the backend can easily check it. If we don't promise that stricter error behavior, we don't need it.

========================
Django's tasks framework

> ========================

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
========================

.. versionadded:: 6.0
```

For a web application, there's often more than just turning HTTP requests into
HTTP responses. For some functionality, it may be beneficial to run code outside
of the request-response cycle.

That's where background tasks come in.

Background tasks can offload complexity outside of the request-response cycle,
to be run somewhere else, potentially at a later date. This keeps requests fast,

> latency down, and improves the user's experience.

Reviewer 5: I would be tempted to add an example here of sending an email :thinking:

functionality, or use a system check to prevent the application from starting at all.

To facilitate this, certain features can be checked on a backend:

* :attr:`supports_defer <django.tasks.backends.base.BaseTaskBackend.supports_defer>`:
  Can Tasks be executed after a specific time using ``run_after``?

* :attr:`supports_async_task <django.tasks.backends.base.BaseTaskBackend.supports_async_task>`:
  Can ``async`` functions (coroutines) be used as task functions?

* :attr:`supports_get_result <django.tasks.backends.base.BaseTaskBackend.supports_get_result>`:
  Can a Task's results be retrieved from another thread or process?

Defining tasks
==============

Tasks are defined using the :meth:`django.tasks.task` decorator on a
module-level function::

    from django.core.mail import send_mail
    from django.tasks import task

    @task
    def email_users(emails, subject, message):
        return send_mail(
            subject=subject, message=message, from_email=None, recipient_list=emails
        )

The return value of the decorator is a :class:`django.tasks.Task` instance.

.. note::

    All arguments and return values must be JSON serializable, and round-trip

>     as the same types.

Reviewer 5: I got confused by "and round-trip as the same type." - what is this referring to sorry?

Author: Yeah I really struggled finding words for this. Basically, if you serialize it to JSON and bring it back, it should be the same type. For example, `json.dumps((1,2,3))` returns `"[1,2,3]"`, which is a list, not a tuple, so the type is lost. Because there's no separate schema, the types must be identical when converted to and from JSON.

Reviewer 5: I pushed a tweak :+1:

    from django.tasks import task

    @task(takes_context=True)
    def email_users(context, emails, subject, message):
        return send_mail(
            subject=subject, message=message, from_email=None, recipient_list=emails
        )

The context has the following attributes:

* :attr:`task_result <django.tasks.TaskContext.task_result>`
* :attr:`attempt <django.tasks.TaskContext.attempt>`

Modifying tasks
---------------

Before enqueueing Tasks, it may be necessary to modify certain parameters of the Task.
For example, to give it a higher priority than it would normally.

A ``Task`` instance cannot be modified directly. Instead, a modified instance
can be created with the :meth:`using <django.tasks.Task.using>` method, leaving
the original as-is::

    email_users.priority  # 0

    email_users.using(priority=10).priority  # 10

``using`` allows modifying the following attributes:

* :attr:`priority <django.tasks.Task.priority>`
* :attr:`backend <django.tasks.Task.backend>`
* :attr:`queue_name <django.tasks.Task.queue_name>`
* :attr:`run_after <django.tasks.Task.run_after>`

``run_after`` may also be provided as a :class:`timedelta <datetime.timedelta>`,

> which is used relative to the current time (when ``using`` is called), or a

Reviewer 5: I think it would be nice to have a specific example setting `run_after` here to illustrate how it can be used. Help with this would be appreciated

Author: I think the help is to delete it - taking `timedelta` gets complex, as it's hard to understand what it's relative to (ie the time when `.using` is called, when `.enqueue` is called, and which timezone is used. I elected to leave it up to the user to handle instead, so this can be removed entirely.
